EMAIL: chrisj@digiquill.com 
NAME: Chris Jeppesen
TOPIC: Ruins
COPYRIGHT: I SUBMIT TO THE STANDARD RAYTRACING COMPETITION COPYRIGHT.
TITLE: Mars Polar Lander: What REALLY happened.
COUNTRY: USA
WEBPAGE: http://www.digiquill.com/kwansys/index.html
RENDERER USED: POV-Ray for Windows v3.10g

TOOLS USED:
Paint Shop Pro 6.01 for JPEG conversion
Kwan Systems RockGen to make height fields
Spring.inc by Ronald L. Parker

HARDWARE USED:
  AMD K6 266MHz w/ 128MB RAM

RENDER TIME:

2 hours 13 minutes 57 seconds

IMAGE DESCRIPTION:

On December 3, 1999, the Mars Polar Lander entered the atmosphere of Mars,
survived the intense heat of entry, opened its parachute, locked radar on
target, released the parachute, and landed safely on the surface of Mars.
It was on the doorstep of the greatest discovery in the history of space
exploration, the Martian Stonehenge. This ancient ruin is over four 
million years old. On Earth, the monument would have been eroded away long
ago, but due to the extremely dry and thin air, little damage has 
occurred. Although often compared to Stonehenge on Earth, this ancient
instrument is the last still standing in an observatory complex 
comparable to that built in Jaipur, India, in 1720. Later expeditions 
would discover the foundations of many other instruments, either blown 
over or buried in dust. Martian Stonehenge is a multi-point sundial, used
for extremely accurate measurement of the 2-dimensional position and 
angular size of the sun in the sky. Stones found near the site have 
engraved upon them an ellipse matching the shape of Mars' orbit. 
Presumably Martian Stonehenge was used to chart the course and size of the
sun to determine this orbit.

Unfortunately the lander decided to land on the wrong side of the monument.
Direct-To-Earth contact is blocked 98% of the time by the sundial towers,
and due to a bug in the software controlling the relay sattelite backup 
link, no contact was ever established. A faint signal was measured by 
radio astronomers in Stanford, California on January 4, 2000, but was 
finally dismissed as an earthbound source when it could not be detected 
again. The real story of the Mars Polar Lander was not learned until
the first manned expedition, sent by Kwan Astronautics in 2047.

Mars Polar Lander was ruined by a ruin.

DESCRIPTION OF HOW THIS IMAGE WAS CREATED:

When I started this image, I was trying to think of a failure scenario 
which would simultaneously look good, be renderable, and be plausible.
My worry was that some discovery between the start of the contest and
now would invalidate my picture, but the discovery by Stanford has
actually made this more plausible, in my opinion. This scenario is
fiction. I believe what actually happened is that the lander made it 
safely, but was turned in the wrong direction for communications with
Earth. The radio relay on the Mars Global Surveyor has never been tested
end-to-end, and probably is faulty.

The Lander model was designed using photographs and diagrams from the
official web site. It is all hand-coded CSG. The engraved rock is the
font Aurabesh.ttf from www.theforce.net. 

Note, in the included ZIP file, there is only one rock height field.
The rest are very similair, but will need to be regenerated in order
to render this image. Use any old heightfield where the edge is 
completely black. Also, the Kwan Systems Logo is not included.

Congratulations go out to the Oregon Tech Basketball Team, which on
February 29 won the Cascade Collegaite Conference Championship! In a 
hard-fought game, the Owls of OIT prevailed over the Western Baptist
Warriors, 60-50. Good luck in the National Tournament! Go Owls!


